Welcome back.
It's now exercise time.
And be warned this is probably the hardest exercise in the entire course.
It's going to be really really frustrating.
And you're going to maybe say some not so nice things about me.
But keep in mind that US developers were always confronted with tasks that don't have a clear solution.
And we're going to have to google around look at code examples and figure out what needs to be done
because our boss or our company or our project doesn't care that we're frustrated sometimes we just
need to deliver work.
So in this exercise you might feel a bit of frustration especially if typescript is new to you but just
stick with it.
I'm going to provide a solution video after this so that if you get really really frustrated you can
continue on watching it.
But I do recommend that you go along with this exercise try and add types as much as possible and hopefully
you learn a little bit of typescript out of it.
Now I've actually set up everything for you just to make it easy because setting up the project isn't
necessarily the goal of this course.
You see I use the Create react up type script.
I follow the instructions which is just to download create re-act up and then run it with the typescript
option and this out of the box gives us all we need to start writing typescript.
I then finally took our robo friends up and moved the files over to this new app that includes typescript.
So now here I have our typescript project which I'm going to give you access to before I just set you
off.
Keep in mind that there are a few differences such as there's now a TS config file here that gives us
some compiler option.
We can see where it's going to be that we're using E-S next modules.
We have a target as he has five.
We see that we also allow GSX react.
And what that means is if I go into my source folders our files are not J.S. files they're TSX files.
They have this x at the bottom because the typescript compiler needs to understand GSX
And if we go down we also see that we're excluding some things that we don't want the typescript compiler
to go through.
Finally there's also something called TS lint and I actually commented all of this out.
If we go to the default project from year you'll see that the TS lint has some of the recommended Lanting
and for react as well as typescript as well as some prettier configurations to make sure that our code
is pretty but I removed that from our project.
You can see here that these are all Lanting rules so that we can get through something called Slint
again because we're just compiling code typescript Kingo and lint our files as well.
But I removed these because it's going to frustrate you even more.
You're just going to keep having to deal with all these areas.
And because we're only focusing on typescript right now and not necessarily limiting.
I've commented this out if you want an extra challenge you could comment.
But get ready for a tough road ahead.
Finally if we go to package Jason File we see that in our dev dependencies we have the typescript package
as well as the act types that is we have type declaration files for just our testing suite node we have
react and react on.
So if we go to our node modules file or folder and go to types we have access to all these type definitions
that we can use with these third party libraries.
So how do you get started.
I want to just write types because if you run NPM start here the typescript compiler is going to run
for you and right now the app is working and we see we have no errors.
But if we do anything funny in our components if I just say that this is a string you'll see that typescript
fails us because type string has no property name because it's expecting an object we have script already
working out of the box.
I wanted to go ahead and try and add types for components and containers.
And because it's a little tricky I started you off just a little bit in the app dot TSX and again don't
get intimidated here.
This is just standard for re-act all about it.
Are these lines over here.
Where I'm exporting because I might want to use my interface robot.
And this is just a common syntax where because it's an interface I'm going to say I and then robot the
name of the interface which has name I.D. and e-mail.
We've seen this before.
And then we also have the interface for our props that the app receives.
In our case we don't really receive any props.
So it's empty.
And then we also have our interface for our app state which has robots and Hershfield robots being an
array of interface robots and then search.
Feel being a strength and then finally I have Riak component that takes in the props which are empty
and the state which as you can see has robots and Hershfield and I added this and here because it is
pretty specific to react and it can trick you up trip you up.
But now that you know how to do this you can go off on your own and start adding types.
Like I said it's going to be challenging.
It's going to be frustrating but I encourage you to try this out.
And then by the end of this exercise you get a message in our community chat how you like types and
how your experience was because there's so many people that love typescript and so many people that
hate typescript and it's a really polarizing tool.
So I want to hear all about it in our chat community but for now go off work on this and I'll see you
in the solution video.